#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Building Organizational Momentum
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When your group lacks 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

organizational momentum
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, managers need to work much harder than necessary to lead change.
 It takes time, effort, and thought to build momentum, but it's absolutely
 
\emph on
required
\emph default
 in order to effectively lead major initiatives.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Beginning is easy…
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It’s easy to start building momentum.
 You make an announcement, or have a kickoff meeting, or schedule an offsite,
 or bring in a speaker.
 You have people’s attention…for a time.
 People will listen because it’s new or because you have organizational
 authority.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In many ways, though, beginning is the least important part.
 You can’t make a single big push and expect that will be enough.
 Building momentum takes conscious effort.
 It takes deliberate, consistent action at the right pace and for enough
 time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Consistency is key
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you're serious about building momentum, you have to be consistent in
 your message, consistent in your actions, consistent in your re-actions.
 What you say needs to reinforce what you've said.
 You have to be internally consistent.
 Your decisions need to be aligned with your message.
 If this is something you really believe in and value, you should be able
 to act consistently without even 
\emph on
thinking
\emph default
 about it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Tempo is important
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Every change has a natural pace and tempo.
 Organizational changes have a rhythm.
 They’re like standing waves on a string.
 If you move too slowly, you won’t build momentum.
 If you move too fast, you’ll interfere with it.
 You have to find the ideal pace — this is different for each group and
 for each type of change.
 You'll need to experiment with this until you find the right tempo.
 When you’ve found a good pace, stick with it.
 If you keep pushing your team at the right pace, if you keep repeating
 your message at the right time, organizational momentum will build naturally.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Resonance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While it takes dedicated effort to keep your messages and actions consistent,
 at some point, your team will start displaying momentum.
 The change you're leading will start to resonate with your team.
 How they work will reflect the change.
 Everything the team does will reinforce this momentum.
 They will have 
\emph on
internalized
\emph default
 the change.
 When your team reaches this state, it gets easier and easier to keep things
 going.
 At some point, it's no effort at all…
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Virtuous cycle
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you’ve been successful at building organizational momentum, at some point
 you won’t have much to do.
 The flywheel will be spinning, and all you’ll need to do is tap lightly
 to keep it going.
 Take a moment to enjoy this.
 Take a longer term view of your team and its role in the larger organization.
 Think about how you can make a bigger impact.
 Think about what your group and organization should look like in 6 months
 or a year.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Anticipate what's next — then create it.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
